                                           
                                                                        Assignment7
                                                                 
          
     Q.1) What is the difference between Procedural and Object oriented programming?
   Ans-               pop                                                                                       oop
       
      1) In Procedural programming, a program is divided into small programs                         1)In OOP a program is divided into small parts that are referred to as objects
         that are referred to as function

      2) It is less secure than OOPs.
                                                                                                     2)Data hiding is possible in object-oriented programming due to abstraction. So, it is      
      3) It follows a top-down approach.                                                               more secure than procedural programming.
                                                                                                     3)It follows a bottom-up approach
      4)it is structure/procedure-oriented.                                                          4)It is object-oriented.
      5)There are no access modifiers in procedural programming.                                     5)The access modifiers in OOP are named as private, public, and protected
      6)Procedural programming does not have the concept of inheritance                              6)There is a feature of inheritance in object-oriented programming.
      7)There is no code reusability present in procedural programming.                              7)It offers code reusability by using the feature of inheritance.
      8)Overloading is not possible in procedural programming.                                       8)In OOP there is a concept of function overloading and operator overloading.
      9)In procedural programming, there are no virtual classes.                                     9)In OOP there is an appearance of virtual classes in inheritance.
      10)It is not appropriate for complex problems.                                                 10)It is appropriate for complex problems.
      11)There is not any proper way for data hiding.                                                11)There is a possibility of data hiding.
      12)Examples of Procedural programming include C, Fortran, Pascal, and VB.                      12)The examples of object-oriented programming are .NET, C#, Python,Java and C++.

    Q.2) What were the problems with Procedural programming?
    Ans- A major problem of using Procedural Programming as a method of programming is the inability to reuse code throughout the program. 
         Having to rewrite the same type of code many times throughout a program can add to the development cost and time of a project.
         Another disadvantage is the difficulty in error checking.

    Q.3) Define class
    Ans- 1) A class is not a real world entity.A class is the template or blueprint from which objects are made.
         2) Class is a logical entity with no physical existence in memory.
         ex- Fruit is a class with no physical existence
         3) class is the collection of object.
        Syntax--   acess modifier class classname
                   {
                    --methods,constructor,fields,block,nested class
                    }                 

    Q.4) Define Object
    Ans- Object is an instance of class which has state and behaviour.Object is a physical entity with physical existence in memory.
         An object consists of : 
         State: It is represented by attributes of an object. It also reflects the properties of an object.
         Behavior: It is represented by methods of an object. It also reflects the response of an object with other objects.
         Identity: It gives a unique name to an object and enables one object to interact with other objects.
         example of an object-Dog, 
         identity-Name of the dog
         State/Attributes-Breed,Age,Colour.
         Behaviour- Bark,Sleep,Eat.
     
    Q.5) What is the difference between the class and object and give a real world example of each.
    Ans-   Object                                                                                                        Class
        1) Object is an instance of a class.
	                                                                                                1) Class is a blueprint or template from which objects are created.
        2) Object is a real world entity such as pen, laptop, mobile, bed, keyboard, 
           mouse, chair etc.
	                                                                                                2) Class is a group of similar objects.

        3) Object is a physical entity.
	                                                                                                3) Class is a logical entity.
        4) Object is created through new keyword mainly e.g.
          Student s1=new Student();	                                                                4) Class is declared using class keyword e.g.
                                                                                                           class Student{}

        5) Object is created many times as per requirement.	                                        5) Class is declared once.

        6) Object allocates memory when it is created.
	                                                                                                6) Class doesn't allocated memory when it is created.
        7) There are many ways to create object in java such as new keyword, 
           newInstance() method, clone() method, factory method and deserialization                     7) There is only one way to define class in java using class keyword.
                                                               
      example--  Class: Human  Object: Man, Woman

                 Class: Fruit  Object: Apple, Banana, Mango, Guava
                
                 Class: Mobile phone Object: iPhone, Samsung, Moto

                 Class: Food  Object: Pizza, Burger, samosa


     Q.6) Out of class and object which has physical existence and which is logical entity.

     Ans- Object- Physical entity
          Class-  Logical entity
         
                          
     Q.7) What do you mean by “state”, “behavior” and “identity” with respect of Object?
 
     Ans- An object consists of : 
         State: It is represented by attributes of an object. It also reflects the properties of an object.
         Behavior: It is represented by methods of an object. It also reflects the response of an object with other objects.
         Identity: It gives a unique name to an object and enables one object to interact with other objects.
         example of an object-Dog, 
         identity-Name of the dog
         State/Attributes-Breed,Age,Colour.
         Behaviour- Bark,Sleep,Eat.
       
     Q.8) As per PPT(slide 8) define your Employee class and add
          fields(instance variables), constructor and getter/setter methods to it.

     Ans-  class Employee
           {
           private String name;     //instance variables
           private double salary;
           public Employee( String n, double salary)      // constructor
           {
           name=n;
           salary=s;
           }
           public String getname()               //method
           {
           return name;
           }
           public double setsalary()
           {
           return salary;
           }
            }
   
      Q.9) What are “class members” in terms of class?

      Ans- The methods,constructor,fields,blocks,nested class and variables defined within a class are called members of the class.

      Q.10) What is a constructor?
      
      Ans-  1) constructor is  a block(similar to method) having same name as that of class name.
            2) constructor does not have any return type, not even void.
            3) the only modifiers applicable for constructor are public,private,protected, default
            4) It executed automatically when we create object.

      Q.11) What is the return type of constructor?
     
      Ans-  constructor does not have any return type, not even void.
    
      Q.12) What is a parameterized constructor?
    
      Ans-  A constructor which has a specific number of parameters is called a parameterized constructor.

      Q.13) Create an object of the employee class created in question 8 using the “new” operator.

      Ans-  Employee e= new Employee();
   
      Q.14) What is a default no argument constructor?

      Ans-  A constructor that has no parameter is known as the default constructor. 
            If we don't define a constructor in a class, then the compiler creates a default constructor(with no arguments) for the class.
      
      Q.15) Is it true that a class gets no-argument constructor by default only when there is no other parameterized constructor defined?

      Ans-  No Because dafault constructor is created only when there is no other constructor such that user defined and paramaterized.
    
      Q.16) What is the meaning of “null”, what happens when a reference variable points to “null”, i.e Employee employee = null.

      Ans-  null can be assigned to any variable of a reference type (that is, a non-primitive type) to indicate that the variable does not refer to any object or array. 
            That means that null cannot be used in place of a reference to a Java object like an instance of java.
    
      Q.17) What is a method, what is the return type and parameters of a method? Take examples from the Employee class.

      Ans-  A set of codes which perform a particular task.
            advantage of method- 1) code reusability 2) code optimization.
            return type- A return type may be a primitive type like int, float, double, a reference type or void type.
            parameters of a method- Parameters act as variables inside the method.
            Parameters are specified after the method name, inside the parentheses. You can add as many parameters as you want, just separate them with a comma.
            ex- public String getname(string name, double salary)

      Q.18) What do we mean by “void” return type. List all the methods that return “void” in Employee class.
   
      Ans-  A void return type simply means nothing is returned.
            public void describe() {
	    System.out.println("Employee [name=" + name + ", type=" + type + ", salary=" + salary + "]");

      Q.19) Check all the “getter” methods in your Employee class and check that all these have a “return” statement, list all the methods in
            employee class that return some value.

      Ans-   public String getname()               //method
           {
           return name;
           }
   
      Q.20) Add a method calculateSalary(salary, bonus) in your employee class and call it after creating the object of employee class.

      Ans-  class Employee
           {
           private String name;     //instance variables
           private double salary;
           private int bonus;
           public Employee( String n, double salary, int bonus)      // constructor
           {
           this.name=name;
           this.salary=salary;
           this.bonus=bonus;
           }
           public String getname()               //method
           {
           return name;
           }
           public double setsalary()
           {
           return salary;
           }
           public int calculateSalary(salary, bonus) 
            {
              return salary,bonus;
              }
            public Static void main(String[] args)
            {
            Employee e1= new Employee(kama,2000,2800);
            s.o.p("employee1:"+e1.name+""+e1.salary+""+e1.bonus);
            }}
            
      Q.21) What is “this” keyword used for?
 
      Ans-  The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.
            this can also be used to:
           - Invoke current class constructor
           - Invoke current class method
           - Return the current class object
           - Pass an argument in the method call
           - Pass an argument in the constructor call

      Q.22) What are different access modifiers that can be applied to fields and methods of a class?
 
      Ans-  Four types of access modifiers are- public,private,default,protected.
  
      Q.23) Describe all the access modifiers.

      Ans-  There are four types of Java access modifiers:
           1) Private: The access level of a private modifier is only within the class. It cannot be accessed from outside the class.
 
           2) Default: The access level of a default modifier is only within the package. It cannot be accessed from outside the package. 
                       If you do not specify any access level, it will be the default.

           3)Protected: The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. 
                        If you do not make the child class, it cannot be accessed from outside the package.

           4) Public: The access level of a public modifier is everywhere. It can be accessed from within the class, outside the class, within the package and outside the package.

     Q.24) What is the purpose of private methods?
 
     Ans-  Private methods are useful for breaking tasks up into smaller parts, or for preventing duplication of code which is needed often by other methods in a class 
           but should not be called outside of that class.

     Q.25) Which access modifier would you use to protect your fields/data?

     Ans-  protected access modifier protect your fields/data.

     Q.26) How do you identify classes and methods for a particular requirement? Take an example of a Banking System and identify all
           the classes that would be needed to build the system.

     Ans-  Class- Banking system   Object- Account number, Account name,Account type,Balance
           Method- Withdrawl,Deposit.







           






                                           
















