                                                          Assignment-8

   Q.1  What is inheritance? Explain with examples.
   
   Ans- Inheritance in Java is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object.
        Inheritance represents the IS-A relationship which is also known as a parent-child relationship.
        Syntax-  class Subclass-name extends Superclass-name  
                 {  
                    //methods and fields  
                  } 
      
       The extends keyword indicates that you are making a new class that derives from an existing class. The meaning of "extends" is to increase the functionality. 
       In the terminology of Java, a class which is inherited is called a parent or superclass, and the new class is called child or subclass.
      
       example-          class Employee{  
                              float salary=400;  
                                       }  
                        class Programmer extends Employee{  
                              int bonus=100;  
                        public static void main(String args[]){  
                        Programmer p=new Programmer();  
                       System.out.println("Programmer salary is:"+p.salary);  
                       System.out.println("Bonus of Programmer is:"+p.bonus);  
                       }  
                         }  
        Programmer is the subclass and Employee is the superclass. The relationship between the two classes is Programmer IS-A Employee. 
        It means that Programmer is a type of Employee.Programmer object can access the field of own class as well as of Employee class i.e. code reusability.
  
  Q.2  Why do we need to use inheritance?
  
  Ans- 1) For Method Overriding (so runtime polymorphism can be achieved).
       2) For Code Reusability.

  Q.3  What is the keyword used to achieve Inheritance in Java?

  Ans- To inherit the parent class, a child class must include a keyword called "extends."
       The keyword "extends" enables the compiler to understand that the child class derives the functionalities and members of its parent class.

 Q.4   What is the use of the “super” keyword?

 Ans-   The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object. 
       Usage of Java super Keyword -
       1) super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
       2) super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
       3) super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

 Q.5  How can a sub-class call a constructor of the super class.

 Ans- Use of super() to access superclass constructor
      As we know, when an object of a class is created, its default constructor is automatically called. 
      To explicitly call the superclass constructor from the subclass constructor, we use super() .

 Q.6  What is method overriding?

 Ans- If subclass (child class) has the same method as declared in the parent class, it is known as method overriding in Java.

      In other words, If a subclass provides the specific implementation of the method that has been declared by one of its
      parent class, it is known as method overriding.
     
     Usage of Java Method Overriding-
     Method overriding is used to provide the specific implementation of a method which is already provided by its superclass.
     Method overriding is used for runtime polymorphism

     Rules for Java Method Overriding-
     The method must have the same name as in the parent class
     The method must have the same parameter as in the parent class.
     There must be an IS-A relationship (inheritance).

 Q.7 Is multiple inheritance supported in Java?

 Ans-No multiple inheritance not supported in java.Consider a case where class B extends class A and Class C and 
     both class A and C have the same method display(). 
     Now java compiler cannot decide, which display method it should inherit. 
     To prevent such situation, multiple inheritances is not allowed in java.

 NOTE: Java does not support multiple inheritance of classes but it supports multiple inheritance for interfaces. 
       Means, a class cannot inherit more than one class but it can inherit and implement multiple interfaces.

 Q.8 What is “Dynamic Binding”?

 Ans-When type of the object is determined at run-time, it is known as dynamic binding.
     We also call Dynamic binding as Late Binding because binding takes place during the actual execution of the program.

 Q.9 What is “Overloading resolution”, how it is done?

 Ans- The process of compiler trying to resolve the method call from given overloaded method definitions is called overload resolution. 
     If the compiler can not find the exact match it looks for the closest match by using upcasts only (downcasts are never done).
     The compiler will consider not a downcast, but an unboxing conversion for overload resolution.

 Q.10 Which keyword is used to prevent inheritance?

 Ans- To prevent inheritance use the keyword "final" when creating the class.

 Q.11 Can a final method be overridden?
 
 Ans- No the Methods that are declared as final cannot be Overridden or hidden.
 
 Q.12 What are abstract classes, why are they used?

 Ans- A class which is declared with the abstract keyword is known as abstract class.
      Abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to the user.
      It can have abstract and non-abstract methods. It needs to be extended and its method implemented. It cannot be instantiated.
      Java Abstract class is used to provide common method implementation to all the subclasses or to provide default implementation

 












